About Bot Service

Bot Service provides what you need to build, connect, test, deploy,
monitor, and manage bots. Bot Service provides the core components for
creating bots, including the Bot Builder SDK for developing bots and the
Bot Framework for connecting bots to channels.

Bot Service provides an integrated environment purpose-built for bot
development. You can write a bot, connect, test, deploy, and manage it
from your web browser with no separate editor or source control
required. For simple bots, you may not need to write code at all. It is
powered by the Bot Framework and it provides two [hosting
plans](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/bot-service-overview-readme#hosting-plans):

-   With the App Service plan, a bot is a standard Azure web app you can
    > set to allocate a predefined capacity with predictable costs and
    > scaling.

-   With a Consumption plan, a bot is a serverless bot that runs on
    > Azure Functions and uses the pay-per-run Azure Functions pricing.

Bot Service accelerates bot development with [Five bot
templates](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/bot-service-concept-templates) you
can choose from when you create a bot. You can further modify your bot
directly in the browser using the Azure editor or in an Integrated
Development Environment (IDE), such as Visual Studio and Visual Studio
Code.

**What is a bot?**
------------------

Think of a bot as an app that users interact with in a conversational
way. Bots can communicate conversationally with text, cards, or speech.
A bot may be as simple as basic pattern matching with a response, or it
may be a sophisticated weaving of artificial intelligence techniques
with complex conversational state tracking and integration to existing
business services.

Bot Service enables you to build bots that support different types of
interactions with users. You can design conversations in your bot to be
freeform. Your bot can also have more guided interactions where it
provides the user choices or actions. The conversation can use simple
text strings or more complex rich cards that contain text, images, and
action buttons. And you can add natural language interactions, which let
your users interact with your bots in a natural and expressive way.

**Why use Bot Service?**
------------------------

Here are some key features of Bot Service:

-   **Multiple language support**. Bot Service leverages Bot Builder
    > with support for .NET and Node.js.

-   **Bot templates**. Bot Service templates allow you to quickly create
    > a bot with the code and features you need. Choose from a Basic
    > bot, a Forms bot for collecting user input, a Language
    > understanding bot that leverages LUIS to understand user intent, a
    > QnA bot to handle FAQs, or a Proactive bot that alerts users of
    > events.

-   **Bring your own dependencies**. Bots support NuGet and NPM, so you
    > can use your favorite packages in your bot.

-   **Flexible development**. Code your bot right in the Azure portal or
    > set up continuous integration and deploy your bot through GitHub,
    > Visual Studio Team Services, and other supported development
    > tools. You can also publish from Visual Studio.

-   **Connect to channels**. Bot Service supports several popular
    > channels for connecting your bots and the people that use them.
    > Users can start conversations with your bot on any channel that
    > you\'ve configured your bot to work with, including Skype,
    > Facebook, Teams, Slack, SMS, and several others.

-   **Tools and services**. Test your bot with the Bot Framework
    > Emulator and preview your bot on different channels with the
    > Channel Inspector.

-   **Open source**. The Bot Builder SDK is open-source and available
    > on [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder).

**What is Bot Builder?**
------------------------

[Bot
Builder](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/bot-builder-overview-getstarted) provides
an SDK, libraries, samples, and tools to help you build and debug bots.
When you build a bot with Bot Service, your bot is backed by the Bot
Builder SDK. You can also use the Bot Builder SDK to create a bot from
scratch using C\# or Node.js. Bot Builder includes the Bot Framework
Emulator for testing your bots and the Channel Inspector for previewing
your bot\'s user experience on different channels.
